readme.md, before:

# Hosts generator

A small tool which is able to generate hosts file content for services discovered from different sources:
* [Traefik](https://traefik.io)
* Kubernetes

Available as docker image: at [Github Packages](https://github.com/users/zekker6/packages/container/package/traefik-hosts-generator).

# Usage

Initially it was developed to enhance local development toolchain which helps to work on several projects at the same time. Workflow suggested having multiple docker-compose apps running and having Traefik as reverse-proxy with dynamic discovery over docker socket.

Example config:
```yaml

version: "3"

services:
  traefik:
    image: traefik:v1.7.18
    restart: unless-stopped
    labels:
      traefik.port: 8080
    volumes:
      - "./traefik.toml:/etc/traefik/traefik.toml"
      - "/var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock"
    ports:
      - "80:80"
    networks:
      - tk_web

  tk-hosts:
    image: ghcr.io/zekker6/traefik-hosts-generator:v0.4.7
    restart: unless-stopped
    volumes:
      - /etc/hosts:/hosts
    command: "-platform=linux -traefik=true -traefikUrl=http://traefik:8080/api -file=/hosts -watch=true -freq=10"
    networks:
      - tk_web
    depends_on:
      - traefik

networks:
  tk_web:
    external: true
```

This config will use external network `tk_web` to establish communication with application container.
It is needed to add this network to all containers which will be connected via Traefik.


Fully working example can be found at [examples folder](example/).

## Command line flags

CLI flags will allow to override default behaviour such as line endings for different host operating systems(useful when using docker image), changing generated block postfix(to allow using several concurrent instances of traefik generator).

```
  -file string
    	specify custom hosts file location, example: '/etc/hosts_custom' (default "/etc/hosts")
  -freq int
    	poll every N seconds (default 5)
  -ip string
    	specify custom ip to use in hosts file, example: '192.168.33.10' (default "127.0.0.1")
  -kube
    	enable kube client
  -kubeconfig string
    	specify full path to kubeconfig (default "/home/zekker/.kube/config")
  -platform string
    	change line-endings style for hosts file, default: '', available: darwin, windows, linux
  -postfix string
    	use unique postfix if 2 parallel instances are running
  -quiet
    	disable logging
  -traefik
    	enable traefik client
  -traefikProvider string
    	traefik traefikProvider to use (default "docker")
  -traefikUrl string
    	specify custom traefik API url, example: 'http://127.0.0.1:8080/api' (default "http://localhost:8080/api")
  -traefikVersion string
    	traefik version to use: 1 / 2 (default "2")
  -watch
    	enable API polling mode: true/false
```

Commit message:

Update versions in readme & add how to create docker network

readme.md, after:

# Hosts generator

A small tool which is able to generate hosts file content for services discovered from different sources:
* [Traefik](https://traefik.io)
* Kubernetes

Available as docker image: at [Github Packages](https://github.com/users/zekker6/packages/container/package/traefik-hosts-generator).

# Usage

Initially it was developed to enhance local development toolchain which helps to work on several projects at the same time. Workflow suggested having multiple docker-compose apps running and having Traefik as reverse-proxy with dynamic discovery over docker socket.

Example config:
```yaml

version: "3"

services:
  traefik:
    image: traefik:v2.6
    restart: unless-stopped
    labels:
      traefik.port: 8080
    volumes:
      - "./traefik.toml:/etc/traefik/traefik.toml"
      - "/var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock"
    ports:
      - "80:80"
    networks:
      - tk_web

  tk-hosts:
    image: ghcr.io/zekker6/traefik-hosts-generator:latest
    restart: unless-stopped
    volumes:
      - /etc/hosts:/hosts
    command: "-platform=linux -traefik=true -traefikUrl=http://traefik:8080/api -file=/hosts -watch=true -freq=10"
    networks:
      - tk_web
    depends_on:
      - traefik

networks:
  tk_web:
    external: true
```

This config will use external network `tk_web` to establish communication with application container.
It is needed to add this network to all containers which will be connected via Traefik.

You can create this network with the following command:

```sh
docker network create tk_web
```

Fully working example can be found at [examples folder](example/).

## Command line flags

CLI flags will allow to override default behaviour such as line endings for different host operating systems(useful when using docker image), changing generated block postfix(to allow using several concurrent instances of traefik generator).

```
  -file string
    	specify custom hosts file location, example: '/etc/hosts_custom' (default "/etc/hosts")
  -freq int
    	poll every N seconds (default 5)
  -ip string
    	specify custom ip to use in hosts file, example: '192.168.33.10' (default "127.0.0.1")
  -kube
    	enable kube client
  -kubeconfig string
    	specify full path to kubeconfig (default "/home/zekker/.kube/config")
  -platform string
    	change line-endings style for hosts file, default: '', available: darwin, windows, linux
  -postfix string
    	use unique postfix if 2 parallel instances are running
  -quiet
    	disable logging
  -traefik
    	enable traefik client
  -traefikProvider string
    	traefik traefikProvider to use (default "docker")
  -traefikUrl string
    	specify custom traefik API url, example: 'http://127.0.0.1:8080/api' (default "http://localhost:8080/api")
  -traefikVersion string
    	traefik version to use: 1 / 2 (default "2")
  -watch
    	enable API polling mode: true/false
```
